Update invalidate_hard_deletes.md (#6968)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/invalidate_hard_deletes.md

---
title: invalidate_hard_deletes
resource_types: [snapshots]
description: "Invalidate_hard_deletes - Read this in-depth guide to learn about configurations in dbt."
datatype: column_name
sidebar_label: invalidate_hard_deletes
---

# invalidate_hard_deletes <Lifecycle status="legacy" />

<IntroText>

Legacy opt-in configuration to enable invalidating hard deleted records while snapshotting the query.

</IntroText>

:::warning This is a legacy config &mdash; Use the [`hard_deletes`](/reference/resource-configs/hard-deletes) config instead.

> In Versionless and dbt Core 1.9 and higher, the [`hard_deletes`](/reference/resource-configs/hard-deletes) config replaces the `invalidate_hard_deletes` config for better control over how to handle deleted rows from the source. 

Author: ```suggestion
In dbt Cloud release tracks and dbt Core 1.9 and higher, the [`hard_deletes`](/reference/resource-configs/hard-deletes) config replaces the `invalidate_hard_deletes` config for better control over how to handle deleted rows from the source. 
```

---

> title: invalidate_hard_deletes

Reviewer: Hiya @mirnawong1 

The legacy pill still appears in the staging link. I tried refreshing and loading a new page from the PR but it still appears.

Kind Regards
Natalie
![Uploading Screenshot 2025-03-04 at 13.20.13.png…]()

Author: hey @nataliefiann , the pill is suppose to appear -- is that what you're seeing? i can't see your screenshot unfortunately

![Screenshot 2025-03-04 at 13 25 22](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9355b001-6581-4192-a39c-0e2562ef5315)

resource_types: [snapshots]
description: "Invalidate_hard_deletes - Read this in-depth guide to learn about configurations in dbt."
datatype: column_name
sidebar_label: invalidate_hard_deletes
---

# invalidate_hard_deletes <Lifecycle status="legacy" />

<IntroText>

Legacy opt-in configuration to enable invalidating hard deleted records while snapshotting the query.

</IntroText>

:::warning This is a legacy config &mdash; Use the [`hard_deletes`](/reference/resource-configs/hard-deletes) config instead.

In dbt Cloud release tracks and dbt Core 1.9 and higher, the [`hard_deletes`](/reference/resource-configs/hard-deletes) config replaces the `invalidate_hard_deletes` config for better control over how to handle deleted rows from the source. 

> For new snapshots, set the config to `hard_deletes='invalidate'` instead of `invalidate_hard_deletes=true`. For existing snapshots, [arrange an update](/reference/snapshot-configs#snapshot-configuration-migration) of pre-existing tables before enabling this setting. Refer to 

Reviewer: Hiya @mirnawong1 

I was just wondering if the last sentence (not included in the PR) is missing some wording?

Kind Regards
Natalie

Author: good catch  - i dont know what its mean to refer to so i'll delete!

> For new snapshots, set the config to `hard_deletes='invalidate'` instead of `invalidate_hard_deletes=true`. For existing snapshots, [arrange an update](/reference/snapshot-configs#snapshot-configuration-migration) of pre-existing tables before enabling this setting. Refer to 

Author: ```suggestion
For new snapshots, set the config to `hard_deletes='invalidate'` instead of `invalidate_hard_deletes=true`. For existing snapshots, [arrange an update](/reference/snapshot-configs#snapshot-configuration-migration) of pre-existing tables before enabling this setting. 
```
